Sandesh Singh
=============

 * Phone: +1 347-687-7748
 * Email: me@sandesh247.com
 * Website: http://sandesh247.com

Education
---------
 * Master's in Computer Science (Expected Fall 2011)
   - GPA 3.9, Stony Brook University

   - Courses:

     - Operating Systems, Analysis of Algorithms, Concurrent and
  Distributed Algorithms, Natural Language Processing, Computational
  Biology, Words and Pictures.  Master's Project Text mining for
  big-data analysis, under the advisement of Prof. Steven Skiena

 * Bachelor of Engineering (Computers) Jun 2006
   - First Class, Vidyavardhini College of Engineering and Technology

   - Courses:

     - Artificial Intelligence, Advanced Databases, Operating Systems,
       Computer Networks

Skills
------

* Languages
 - Proficient in Java, Python, C#, Javascript, Bash, C++

* Data 
 - Classification and mining with Weka, numpy, NLTK, learning R
 - Data mining on Microsoft Analysis Services with MDX/DMX, SQL

* Cloud
 - Google AppEngine applications, using webpy and Django
 - Amazon EC2 for distribution (via Hadoop)

* Frameworks
 - OR Mapping frameworks (NHibernate, Microsoft Entity Framework, Gentle.Net)
 - Social frameworks (GData Python Client, Facebook applications)
 - Web frameworks (ASP.Net, Django, Google AJAX API, jQuery)


Career
------

* Software Developer Intern, Kindle Content Quality Team, Amazon
  Inc. (May 2011 - August 2011)

 - Improved the Kindle experience by understanding user behavior using
   machine learning


* Technical Leader, Neorithm Technologies (Oct 2008 - July 2010)

 - Core team member since inception, led the technology R&D across the
   company's product lines


* Senior Software Engineer, Finacus Solutions (Nov 2007 - Aug 2008)

 - Core team member, enabled rapid application development with an
   in-house framework


* Subject Matter Expert, Amdocs (Aug 2006 - Oct 2007)
 - Implemented Amdocs' telecom billing functionality using Unix processes



Papers and publications
-----------------------

* Language of Vandalism: Improving Wikipedia Vandalism Detection via
  Stylometric Analysis ACL 2011

* Domain Independent Authorship Attribution without Domain Adaptation
  (presenter only) RANLP 2011

* Filed for a patent on techniques used at Amazon during internship



Projects
--------

* Vandalism detection in Wikipedia (Stony Brook University)

Hypothesized and validated an NLP approach to detecting vandalism, by
modeling good and vandal edits using a probabilistic context free
grammar, and evaluating new edits, attaining 84% precision and 89%
recall.


* Pattern recognition in human speech (Stony Brook University)

Built a classifier to detect the language of a human speaker, by
building an ngram model over various features of an audio signal.  The
classifier attained an accuracy of 72% and recall of 73%, when tested
over 9 languages.


* Language detector for textual data (Stony Brook University)

Implemented a novel algorithm, under the guidance of Yuri Puzis, to
detect the language of a given piece of text using a trie-based
decision tree. The accuracy of the classification could be increased
to an arbitrary level - limited by a dictionary - while training the
decision tree.


* Social network based on recommendation (Self and friends)

Built a recommendation based social network on the Google AppEngine,
using Django. Given things one likes and doesn't like, people whose
likes were most similar were matched up.


* Differential AJAX Server (Neorithm Technologies)

Modified the ASP.Net pipeline to AJAX-ify legacy ASP.net applications,
based on the `diff' of the pages being transmitted to the
client. Built custom modules such that the server would only hand out
a diff of the new page with respect to the older page, and an injected
javascript on the client would merge the changes.


* Optimized MDX query generator (Neorithm Technologies)

Developed a translator to generate an optimized MDX query for a given
high level declarative user query in XML, which was used to query a
Microsoft Analysis Services OLAP warehouse.  This was part of an
Anti-Money Laundering product, whose development I led.


* Versioned data storage engine (Neorithm Technologies)

Developed a datastore to store oles, and exposed an API in C#.  The
datastore had versioning support, and supported multiple
implementations for actual storage of oles. In particular, a
ole-system based, and a relational database backends were built.


* ATM switch (Finacus Technologies)

Built a daemon to run on ATMs, and carry out transactions with banks
using the Diebold and NCR protocols.  The daemon was written using the
Microsoft.Net framework and was extensible to support other protocols.


* Web application development framework (Finacus Technologies)

Built a web application development framework, consisting of UI
elements in the form of ASP.net con- trols, an ORM, workAEows and code
generators. These greatly reduced the development time and provided
independence from 3rd party vendors.


* Rater extensions (Amdocs)

Developed various daemons and C++ extensions to support the telecom
billing processes of Amdocs' Rater product, on Sun Sparc and AIX
systems. Also traveled to Israel and Russia for testing and production
sup- port.


* The Distributed DataBase (Vidyavardhini College of Engineering)

Developed the parser, query execution engine and GUI for The
Distributed DataBase (http://tddb.sf.net), a true distributed database
built from the ground up, which conforms to the SQL-92 syntax.


* Email Server (Vidyavardhini College of Engineering)

Built an email server in JSP/servlets, where the communication between
the server and client was done through web services.


* Wordlist trainer (Self)

Built a web application http://wl.sandesh247.com to help students
prepare for wordlists for exams like the GRE. It uses an AJAX
interface which communicates with the backend using a REST-api, and
has unique approach to learning - revise that which you did not know
the last time, taking out the tedium to manually mark hard words.


* Various jQuery plugins (Self)

Built various jQuery plugins during the course of my employment in
Neorithm Technologies, while improving usability in web
applications. Some of them can be seen in online repositories linked
at the end of this resume.


Links
-----

 - Code samples: http://github.com/sandesh247;
   http://code.google.com/u/sandesh247

 - Blog: http://sandesh247.com/journal
